# The-code-for-MSD-VMMS-HK-dataset
Overview

Mobile mapping is the research trend in the mapping field due to its superior time efficiency compared to traditional fixed mapping methods. It is an important digital base for numerous applications, such as high-definition (HD) maps, digital twins, smart cities, etc. However, most mobile mapping datasets are based on portable platforms, such as backpacks and robotics, leading to insufficient research on large-scale mobile mapping and autonomous driving. To change the status quo, a multimodal sensor dataset from a vehicle-mounted mobile mapping system for comprehensive urban scenes (MSD-VMMS-HK) is provided. It has rich, high-precision, and large-scale multimodal sensor information, including high-precision (millimeter-level) light detection and ranging (LiDAR), the panoramic camera, and GNSS/INS. And MSD-VMMS-HK dataset encompasses a wide range of scenarios of Hong Kong which is selected as the representative urban area because it has diverse urban scenarios, such as mountain tunnels, cross-harbour tunnels, urban canyons, mountain roads, seaside roads, etc. Additionally, examples of various applications of the dataset, such as accurate mapping of urban canyons, urban infrastructure management and maintenance, and change detection, are provided to facilitate reference by the academic community.

The vehicle-based mobile mapping system integrates high-precision laser sensors, HDR panoramic cameras, GNSS devices, and inertial navigation systems, enabling continuous acquisition of vast spatial data in dynamic environments and accurate completion of measurement tasks. It is adaptable for installation on diverse carriers, including cars, trains, and ships, and adeptly handles multifaceted tasks while efficiently collecting high-density and high-precision point cloud and image data during vehicular operation. These features collectively position it as a highly innovative mobile mapping system.

The Riegl2pcd.cpp module processes raw LiDAR data acquired by the Riegl VUX-1HA scanner, converting the original point cloud records (Riegl_Points/Points.csv) into discrete single-frame point cloud outputs (Riegl_Points/Scans). This preprocessing step enables efficient downstream point cloud reconstruction tasks by providing properly formatted frame-based point cloud data.
